>> Mathew DesLauriers: Next thing would
be let's have a white background.
So you'll notice if the pixel
is transparent, like 0,
we're just drawing black.
And so actually, we have to set up the
background in this utility function here.
And we set it by doing clear color.
And you can use a string
ClearColor is white.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
if you set this to be false,
it's actually gonna be transparent.
And you're gonna test that
again like we did earlier,
by downloading the output and
you'll see that it's a transparent PNG.
But we're gonna use white for now.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: So another thing
we'll do and another thing you might
notice if you're looking at this image and
you want it to be a really high quality
image that you're sending to a client for
their branding or something like that.
You might notice these jagged
edges around the circle.
It's a bit hard to see on the screen but
it's definitely noticeable
when you zoom in.
And we want to smooth that circle a bit.
So we're going to use another concept.
So here we have this line here,
just this part,
and the reason it's jagged is because
we're using such a harsh step.
We're saying as soon as the distance is
greater than a certain value make it 0 and
as soon as is less than
a certain value make it 1.
And there's no smoothness in
between there, so is either 1 or 0.
It's like a bit map but we actually want
it to do is slowly go from 0 to 1 and
vice-versa.
So we're gonna set this to the value,
we're gonna call this value alpha.
Just leave it at 1 for
now just to make sure it works.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
you should see everything.
This means all the pixels in
the image are full transparency.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And what we're
gonna do is we're gonna learn about two
different functions.
The first one is exactly
what we had before,
it's just looking a little bit different.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
this is called a step function.
In a step function,
it says if this is less than this value,
if the first argument is less
than the second argument,
return 0, otherwise return 1.
I might have the arguments mixed up, but
either way it's basically exactly what
we did before with the ternary where if
a is less than b use 0, otherwise use 1.
But instead of step, which is a built-in
function just like mix and length,
we're gonna use something
else called smoothstep.
So step is really useful to learn,
and generally,
whenever you're writing shaders,
if you're using the built-ins,
it's gonna be a bit faster than
trying to do the math yourself.
So that's just a tip if you're working
with shaders and want better performance.
So smoothstep works like this.
You pass in a low value, and
you pass in a high value.
And then you pass in the value that you
have that lies somewhere between your low
and high values.
And what's gonna happen
is if this dist value is
less than 0.25, we're gonna end up with 0.
And if this dist value is greater
than 0.5, we're gonna end up with 1.
But if it's anywhere between those,
it's going too smoothly sort
of roll off between 0 and 1.
And so that's what's happening here is
we have this smooth gradient effect,
which is kind of cool on its own right and
you can try flipping those numbers around.
Just doing instead of the first and
second parameter, just do them flipped.
And so this is way too smooth.
You know how the whole purpose of this
image was to make a really crisp mask?
Although it's pretty cool already,
we have this blurry thing.
What we should do is let's make this value
much, much closer to the other value.
So the closer this value
is to the other value,
the less of a gradient
fall off we're gonna get.
So if we were to use
almost the same value.
You just don't wanna use the same
value but almost the same,
you can do 0.5005 or something.
And there's a point which is too close and
it starts to look pixel-y again.
But there might be a point at
which it starts to look smooth.
And there's actually more technical
ways of achieving really perfect edges.
But just for the sake of this class,
we're gonna just do this effect here.